.. _l10n-label:

l10n and i18n
=============

Zippy uses `i18n-abide`_ for l10n purposes. It provides gettext functions for
the application and also provides the ability to use a debug locale for
testing l10n.

To create, extract, merge and compile locales we are using `grunt-i18n-abide`_
which is a set of grunt tasks to run the localisation tools.

To use grunt-i18n-abide you'll need to make sure you have your distro's
standard tools installed. You should install Gnu gettext to get
`msginit`, `xgettext`, and other tools.

Creating new locales
--------------------

First add the language you want to support to the `supportedLanguages` list
in 'lib/config/default.js'

Once this is there run `grunt abideCreate` and the locale dir will be
automatically created along with a `.po` file.

Extracting new strings
----------------------

To extract new strings run `grunt abideExtract`. This should update the template.

Merging new strings into existing locales
-----------------------------------------

To merge newly extracted strings into existing locales run `grunt abideMerge`.

Compile locales
---------------

Currently Zippy only needs json files to be compiled for l10n purposes. To that end
simply run `grunt abideCompile`.

General notes
-------------

Always check what's created is what's expected. Version control can really help with this.
If you have any problems and what's created isn't what you expect please file a bug
with the relevant project.


.. _i18n-abide: https://github.com/mozilla/i18n-abide
.. _grunt-i18n-abide: https://github.com/mozilla/grunt-i18n-abide
